:imagesdir: ./images

= Scheduling Silas

[quote, unknown]
"If you don't control your time, your time controls you." 

An operating-system and a personal schedule have very similar goals. Both must
respond to external events and allocate shared resources. Like an operating
system, there are multiple "users" of the shared resource: me. These "users"
have different goals and needs. If one of these "users" becomes too greedy, the
other users will revolt and overthrow the tyranny. Therefore, one of the key
indicators of good schedule is balance. 

The second goal is to maximize my utilization--the time effectively tracked by
my schedule. Again, not all time needs to be spent being "productive", but at
least track it. Its about being mindful and intentional of where I'm spending 
my time. Perhaps this will reduce the phenomenon of thinking about work when
your playing and thinking about play when your working.

== Implementation

image:printed-booklet-revision-1-cover-page.jpg[]

image:printed-booklet-revision-1-first-page.jpg[]

The end-product is a printable booklet which I carry in my wallet. I've tried
digital solutions, but I prefer paper. 

The booklet is composed of a schedule for Monday through Friday which are the
most predictable days of my week. However, planning for the future contains an
inherent level of risk. My goal is to be nimble (lowercase agile). To do this,
I've scheduled ``PLAN`` a couple of times throughout my day. This time will be
used to adjust to external events. Furthermore, the booklet is produced
every 1-2 weeks (length of a traditional sprint) allowing me to respond to
change at larger scope. 

The last pages of my schedule booklet will be my "backlogs" for the various
tasks I need to complete: school, chores, reading, quotes, ideas, road-maps, 
etc.

== Contributing
This project subscribes to the 
https://www.writethedocs.org/guide/docs-as-code/[docs-as-code philosophy]: 
documentation is described in plain-text, and outputs are generated from these 
source files. This improves flexibility, correctness, maintainability, and
single-source-of-truth. 

=== Tools Used
* https://asciidoctor.org/[asciidoctor] 
  https://hub.docker.com/r/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor[docker image]
* https://archlinux.org/packages/extra/any/psutils/[psutils]

